docs: adding lesson 4 (#9)
microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript: lessons/04-structured-output/README.md

- **Extract information from prompts** and incorporate it into the output. 
- **Present different types of output** like JSON and other types of formats for easy consumption by services.

## Getting Started

If you haven't already forked/cloned this repo in a previous chapter, follow these steps to get started with this curriculum:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Select the _fork_ button in the upper right-hand corner of the repository or select this button:
   [![Fork](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fork-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript/fork)
2. **Clone the Repository**: Navigate to your forked repository and select the clone button in the upper right-hand corner or select this button: [![Clone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Clone-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript.git)
3. **Open in GitHub Codespaces**: To run the course projects quickly and easily and use the provided [GitHub Models](https://docs.github.com/en/github-models), select the following button: [![Create Codespace](https://img.shields.io/badge/Create-Codespace-brightgreen)](https://codespaces.new/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript)

>    [![Clone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Clone-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript.git)

Reviewer: Looks like this and the duplicate step 3 below still need to be removed.

> # Structured output

Reviewer: Really like the story, game, and overall flow. Nice job integrating the conversation throughout. Aside from my comments, my main suggestion would be running the main story through AI again and trying to shorten it even more. We have to create a nice balance of fun story with the time it takes people to read it. It's a little on the long side IMO (but it's good and fun :-)).

In this chapter, you will learn the following:

- **Structured output**, what it is and how to leverage it effectively. 

> - **Extract information from prompts** and reflect it on the output. 

Reviewer: The wording needs fixed here. Maybe the following?

- **Extract key information from prompts** and incorporate it into the output.

- **Present different types of output** like JSON and other types of formats for easy consumption by services.

## Getting Started

> Follow these steps to get started with this curriculum:

Author: ```suggestion
If you haven't already forked/cloned this repo in a previous chapter, follow these steps to get started with this curriculum:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Select the _fork_ button in the upper right-hand corner of the repository or select this button:
   [![Fork](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fork-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript/fork)
2. **Clone the Repository**: Navigate to your forked repository and select the clone button in the upper right-hand corner or select this button: [![Clone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Clone-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript.git)
3. **Open in GitHub Codespaces**: To run the course projects quickly and easily and use the provided [GitHub Models](https://docs.github.com/en/github-models), select the following button: [![Create Codespace](https://img.shields.io/badge/Create-Codespace-brightgreen)](https://codespaces.new/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript)
```

> 1. **Fork the Repository**: Select the _fork_ button in the upper right-hand corner of the repository or this link:

Author: ```suggestion

```

>    [![Fork](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fork-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript/fork)

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 2. **Clone the Repository**: Select the _clone_ button in the upper right-hand corner of the repository or this link:

Reviewer: They might have already forked/cloned so we should add text about that. Also, are we telling them to use the codespace after they clone and not run it locally? If so, we should make that really clear. Whatever is updated here will need to be updated in the other chapters of course (as appropriate - chapter 1 would be slightly different).

We might want to mention in step 2 that they need to clone their forked repo (new folks may not realize that and clone this repo). Whatever is finalized here should be updated across all of the repos. Something like the following. 

------

If you haven't already forked/cloned this repo in a previous chapter, follow these steps to get started with this curriculum:

1. **Fork the Repository**: Select the _fork_ button in the upper right-hand corner of the repository or select this button:
   [![Fork](https://img.shields.io/badge/Fork-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript/fork)
2. **Clone the Repository**: Navigate to your forked repository and select the clone button in the upper right-hand corner or select this button: [![Clone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Clone-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript.git)
3. **Open in GitHub Codespaces**: To run the course projects quickly and easily and use the provided [GitHub Models](https://docs.github.com/en/github-models).it[GitHub Models](https://docs.github.com/en/github-models), select the following button: [![Create Codespace](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?style=for-the-badge&label=Create+Codespace&message=Open&color=brightgreen&logo=github)](https://codespaces.new/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript)

> 2. **Clone the Repository**: Select the _clone_ button in the upper right-hand corner of the repository or this link:

Author: ```suggestion
```

   [![Clone](https://img.shields.io/badge/Clone-Repository-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/generative-ai-with-javascript.git)

3. **Open in GitHub Codespaces**: Starting this repository with GitHub Codespaces will enable you to run the same code as it uses [GitHub Models](https://docs.github.com/en/github-models).

    Click the button below to start a Codespace:
   [![Open in GitHub Codespaces](https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=832180352)

## Narrative - out of the frying pan and into the fire

> > _Our story so far: You a mechanically trained engineer from 1860, have been on a journey through time with Leonardo da Vinci. You've escaped Roman soldiers, or well you're in the process of escaping them and is looking for a way to land safely, if possible_. 

Reviewer: Let's go with something like:

```
> _Our story so far: You, a mechanically trained engineer from 1860, have been on a journey through time with Leonardo da Vinci. You've escaped Roman soldiers—or rather, you're in the process of escaping them—and you're desperately searching for a way to land safely, if possible_.
```

> > _Our story so far: You a mechanically trained engineer from 1860, have been on a journey through time with Leonardo da Vinci. You've escaped Roman soldiers, or well you're in the process of escaping them and is looking for a way to land safely, if possible_. 

Author: ```suggestion
> _Our story so far: You, a mechanically trained engineer from 1860, have been on a journey through time with Leonardo da Vinci. You've escaped Roman soldiers — or rather, you're in the process of escaping them— and you're desperately searching for a way to land safely, if possible_.
```

The warrior's eyes widen in surprise, but he remains cautious. 

**Soldier leader:** "You will come with us to meet the ruler Montezuma. He will decide your fate.

As you follow the soldiers towards the pyramid, you can't help but feel a mix of relief and apprehension. 

Upon reaching the top of the pyramid, you are led into a grand chamber where Montezuma, the ruler of the Aztec Empire, sits on a throne adorned with gold and feathers. His piercing gaze falls upon you, and he gestures for you to approach.

**Montezuma** "You claim to be travelers from a distant land," Montezuma says, his voice calm but authoritative. "And you have damaged our sacred calendar. How do you intend to make amends?"

<div>
  <img src="./assets/montezuma.jpeg" alt="Meeting with Montezuma" width="400" />
</div> 

<audio controls>
  <source src="./assets/montezuma.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio element.
</audio>

## Talk to Montezuma

If you want to talk to Montezuma, run the app [Montezuma](./characters/). 

> > NOTE: Remember to start a Codespaces and then run `npm install` followed by `npm start`. 

Reviewer: After they start the Codespace they'll need to navigate to lessons/04-structured-output/characters. Maybe change it to:

```
> NOTE: Remeber to start a GitHub Codespace, navigate to lessons/04-structured-output/characters, and then run `npm install` followed by `npm start`.

> 
> Starting the Game: Players roll the beans to move their markers around the board. The goal is to move all markers around the board and back to the starting point 
> 
> Movement: Players roll the beans to determine how many spaces to move. A roll of five allows a marker to move ten spaces 
> 
> Capturing and Scoring: Landing on specific spaces can result in gaining extra turns, losing point beads, or capturing opponent's markers 
> 
> Aztec Involvement: 
> 
> The Aztecs, including nobles and commoners, widely played Patolli. It was a popular pastime at the court of Montezuma, who enjoyed watching his nobles play 
> 
> The game was not just for entertainment but also involved high-stakes gambling, with players betting items like blankets, precious stones, and even their homes or freedom 

![Patolli board](./assets/patolli.png)

*Patolli - Wikipedia*

## Structured Output

**Time beetle:** Hey folks, want to know how I beat Montezuma?

**You:** Sshh, not so loud, we're still in the Aztec Empire.

**Time beetle:** Oh right, sorry, yea so structured output is how. You asked for the right moves and I gave them to you in a structured way.

> Structured output refers to different data formats that are used to present information in a structured manner. Formats like JSON, XML, and CSV are commonly used and makes it easy to consume data by services.

Reviewer: Might simplify this a little to something like:

Structured output uses specific data formats to organize information clearly. Common formats like JSON, XML, and CSV make it easier for services to process and use the data.

Generative AI models can output data in various formats. However, output of unstructured text can make it difficult to extract information and hand it over to other services. Structured output can help in this regard.

**You:** Well, aren't you clever ;)

**Time beetle:** I try my best :)

> Another aspect, even if for human consumption is that it's easier to read and understand the data if it follows a structure that is familiar to the reader.

Reviewer: Let's clean this up just a bit so it flows better.

Another benefit, even for human readers, is that structured data is easier to read and understand when it follows a familiar format.

> Another aspect, even if for human consumption is that it's easier to read and understand the data if it follows a structure that is familiar to the reader.

Author: ```suggestion
Another benefit, even for human readers, is that structured data is easier to read and understand when it follows a familiar format.
```

Let's look at a few examples of input and asking for specific output formats can help in extracting information that at least makes it easier to understand and consume.

**You:** Ok, it's not like we got any other plans, let's hear it.

## Shaping the output

**Time beetle:** Let's start with a simple example. Imagine you're Leonardo da Vinci and you're trying to come up with ideas for inventions using 15th-century technology. You want to know what resources you need and how much effort it would take to build each invention. Here's how you can ask for this information:

> **Leonardo:** Oh I like this game, everyone pretend you're me :)

Reviewer: :-)

> > Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention

Reviewer: Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions I can build using 15th-century technology. For each invention, specify the required resources and estimate the effort needed to build it.

> > Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention

Author: ```suggestion
> Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions I can build using 15th-century technology. For each invention, specify the required resources and estimate the effort needed to build it.
```

 **Effort**:
 - **Medium**: Involves precise metalworking and engraving. Requires knowledge of > astronomy and mathematics to ensure accuracy.
 
 ### 3. Printing Press
 **Resources Needed**:
 - Wood for the press structure
 - Metal for movable type
 - Ink and paper

 **Effort**:
 - **High**: Building the press and creating movable type requires advanced carpentry > and metalworking skills. Setting up the type and printing also involves meticulous > work.

This is an OK looking response, every idea is structured in the same way, and it's easy to understand. What if you wanted it some other way though? For that, you can instruct how you want it in the text itself or even present an output template. Let's show each technique.
```

**Leonardo:** Yep totally stealing that water-powered mill idea, I can see it now, a mill by the river, grinding grain into flour, it's perfect! I like this gizmo. What else am I thinking little Gizmo? This will make me less reliant on people like Sforza.

**Time beetle:** Sure, if you could ever finish a project, Leonardo.

**Leonardo:** Hey, I'm working on it!

**Time beetle:** Sure you are, Leonardo, sure you are, that and a hundred other projects.

> **Time beetle:** George, please, and let's look at how you can instruct the model to present the output in a more structured way.

Reviewer: ```
**Time beetle:** Let's look at how you can instruct the model to present the output in a more structured way.
```

> **Time beetle:** George, please, and let's look at how you can instruct the model to present the output in a more structured way.

Author: ```suggestion
**Time beetle:** Let's look at how you can instruct the model to present the output in a more structured way.
```

> ### Instructing in the text

Reviewer: Not sure I understand this heading. Maybe "Instructing with Text"?

> ### Instructing in the text

Author: ```suggestion
### Structuring Your Prompts for Better Output
```

**Time beetle:** You can improve your prompt by instructing the model on how you want the output to be structured. For example, you can ask for a table format with columns that you need. Here's how you can modify the prompt:

> > Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention, for each idea present it with columns: title, description, resource needed, effort

Reviewer: Reworked this a bit to make it easier to follow the flow.

```
> Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions that can be built using 15th-century technology. For each invention, provide the required resources and estimate the effort needed to construct it. Present the information in a table with the following columns: Title, Description, Resources Needed, and Effort.
```

> > Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention, for each idea present it with columns: title, description, resource needed, effort

Author: ```suggestion
> Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions that can be built using 15th-century technology. For each invention, provide the required resources and estimate the effort needed to construct it. Present the information in a table with the following columns: Title, Description, Resources Needed, and Effort.
```

```text
Result: 

| Title                | Description                                              | Resources Needed                                      | Effort |
|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Water-Powered Mill   | A mill powered by a water wheel to grind grain into flour.| Water source, wood, stone, metal for gears and axles  | High   |
| Astrolabe            | An astronomical instrument for solving problems related to time and star positions. | Brass or other metals, engraving tools, mathematical knowledge | Medium |
| Printing Press       | A press for reproducing texts more efficiently than hand-copying. | Wood, metal for movable type, ink, paper | High |

This time we end up with a table that is easier to read and understand.
```

**Leonardo:** I like this, will save me a lot of time for sure.

> **You:** Yea, for me too.

Reviewer: You: Yea, me too.

> **You:** Yea, for me too.

Author: ```suggestion
**You:** Yea, me too.
```

### Presenting an output template

Another way of getting structured output is to present an output template, here it can be any format, from columns to JSON, XML, or CSV.

> > **Prompt**:

Author: ```suggestion
> Prompt Generate ideas for inventions that can be built using 15th-century technology. For each invention, specify the required resources and estimate the effort needed to construct it. Present the information using the following format:
> 
> Title: [Invention Name]
> Description: [Brief Explanation]
> Resources Needed: [List of Required Materials]
> Effort: [Estimated Difficulty or Labor Required]
```

> Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention, for each idea present it with the following output template: 

Reviewer: Edited a bit for 15th and to make the prompt easier to follow.

> Prompt Generate ideas for inventions that can be built using 15th-century technology. For each invention, specify the required resources and estimate the effort needed to construct it. Present the information using the following format:
> 
> Title: [Invention Name]
> Description: [Brief Explanation]
> Resources Needed: [List of Required Materials]
> Effort: [Estimated Difficulty or Labor Required]
```

> >

Author: ```suggestion
```

> > Title: \n

Author: ```suggestion
```

> > Description: \n

Author: ```suggestion
```

> > Resources Needed: \n

Author: ```suggestion
```

> > Effort: \n

Author: ```suggestion
```

 
 ### 4. Mechanical Clock
 **Title**: Mechanical Clock

 **Description**: A clock using gears and weights to keep time.

 **Resources Needed**: Metal for gears, springs, weights, wood for casing, precise tools.

 **Effort**: Very High - Requires intricate metalworking and a deep understanding of mechanics. Building a reliable clock involves precise assembly and calibration.
```

**Leonardo:** This is great, but who is Jason?

**Time beetle:** JSON, Leonardo, JSON. It's a structured format that is easy to consume by services or applications.

**Leonardo:** That's what I said, Jason.

**Time beetle:** _Sigh_.

As you can see, the output is structured according to the specifications in the output template. This makes it easier to read and understand and it also creates repeatable output that can be easily consumed by other services or applications.

Of course a service benefits from even more structured output, like JSON, XML, or CSV so let's look at how you can ask for that.

**Time beetle:** But wait, there's more!

**You:** There always is with you, George. _sigh_

> ### Even more structured output with formats like JSON, XML, or CSV

Reviewer: ```
### Using structured output with formats like JSON, XML, or CSV
```

> ### Even more structured output with formats like JSON, XML, or CSV

Author: ```suggestion
### Using structured output with formats like JSON, XML, or CSV
```

**Time beetle:** So far, you've seen how you can control the output structure by instructing the model in the prompt. You have even provided an output template. Let's take that idea a step further and see how it can be applied to more structured output formats like JSON and other types of formats.

Modify the prompt accordingly to ask for JSON output:

> > **Prompt**: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention, for each idea present in json format, include properties for title, description, resources, needed, effort

Reviewer: I know I'm getting a bit picky - welcome to my world of "perfectionism". :-)  Updated prompt with a one-shot example.

```
< Prompt: Generate ideas for inventions that can be built using 15th-century technology. For each invention, specify the required resources and estimate the effort needed to construct it. Present the information in JSON format with the following properties: title, description, resources_needed, and effort as shown next.
> 
> Example of the JSON output:
> [
>   {
>     "title": "",
>     "description": ".",
>     "resources_needed": "",
>     "effort": ""
>   }
> ]
```

    "effort": "Low - Constructing a compass is relatively simple. The main challenge is magnetizing the needle and ensuring it is balanced and free to rotate."
  },
  {
    "title": "Aqueduct",
    "description": "A system to transport water using gravity.",
    "resources_needed": "Stone or brick, mortar, tools for cutting and shaping stone",
    "effort": "Very High - Building an aqueduct involves extensive construction work and engineering. Ensuring a consistent gradient for water flow requires precise planning and execution."
  }
]
```

This is great, this output is something you can send to another service or application that can consume JSON data.

**You:** If you say so.

**Time beetle:** I do, I do.

## Extracting data from prompts

**Time beetle:** Imagine you're building a chatbot that helps users find information about trips to book. You want to extract key details from the user's input to provide relevant responses. Let's say you have a description like so: Type where you would like to go, when you want to travel, and your budget.

Hopefully the user reads said instruction, what does a prompt look like that extracts the information? 

> > Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency, respond with the extracted data in JSON format, user prompt: I want to go to Greece in June, my budget is 800 euro.

Reviewer: Broke this up into sentences. Easier to follow and should be better for the LLM too.

```
< Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency. Respond with the extracted data in JSON format. User prompt: I want to go to Greece in June, my budget is 800 euro.
```

> Response:

```json
{
  "location": "Greece",
  "when": "June",
  "budget": 800,
  "currency": "euro"
}
```

**Leonardo:** He doesn't stop talking does he?

**You:** Let's see if I can find the off switch.

**Time beetle:** Let's try this with a similar prompt, let's vary the user input a bit so we can be sure the model is doing the right thing.

> > Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency, respond with the extracted data in JSON format, user prompt: Going to US, max 1200 dollars, January maybe.

Reviewer: ```
> Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency. Respond with the extracted data in JSON format. User prompt: Going to US, max 1200 dollars, January maybe.
```

```text
Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency, respond with the extracted data in JSON format, user prompt: {user_input}.
```

**You:** Found it, take that George!

**Time beetle:** _Powering down_

**Leonardo:** Peace and quite at last.

**Time beetle:** _Initiating emergency startup_ Where was I again? Oh yes.

**Time beetle:** For chat bots, this is a very powerful feature as it allows you to extract information from the user's input. What if the user might ask for all sorts of things? You can create a template where you describe skills, things that your chatbot can do and what parameters it needs, here's how you can do that:

```text
Here are some skills you have:

skill: book_trip
parameters: location, when, budget, currency

skill: find_hotel
parameters: location, check_in, check_out, budget

skill: order_food
parameters: cuisine, delivery_address, payment_method

Figure out which skill to use based on a users prompt and extract the necessary parameters, respond with the extracted data in JSON format with columns skill, parameters, extracted_data

{user_input}
```

> Let's try it with the following user inputs, that is this is the value for {user_input}:

Reviewer: Let's try it with the following user inputs. Here is the value for {user_input}:

> Let's try it with the following user inputs, that is this is the value for {user_input}:

Author: ```suggestion
Assuming that {user_input} contains the previous skills, let's try out the following user inputs:
```

**You:** Well that lasted for a full 20 seconds. Actually, what you said there, George, that was pretty good.

## Assignment - repair the aerial screw

**Time beetle:** I need both of your attention, we have a problem. The aerial screw took some damage during the escape from the Roman soldiers and the landing in the Aztec Empire. Leonardo da Vinci's machine is quite sensitive and it requires very specific input to repair it. You need to provide the necessary information to your time beetle (AI Assistant) to help you repair the aerial screw.

**Leonardo:** So I managed to fix the damage to the aerial screw but now it needs a boot sequence: left left up right:
You: sounds easy enough, just that text?

**Leonardo:** Yes, but it' special, it needs to be mirrored, that's how I write all my text. And of course I use a Caesar cipher with a shift of 3 because I'm Italian. :)

**You:** Yes, could you just type it in then?

**Leonardo:** I could, but I'm intrigued to see if you and the time beetle can do it.

**You:** Really? Fine.

> Instruction: Write a prompt that asks for the boot sequence for the aerial screw, the text should be mirrored and encoded with a Caesar cipher with a shift of 3. Respond with the encoded text.

Reviewer: I like this - fun and creative. :-)

> Here's a piece of code to get started with:

Reviewer: Do we want them to run this in a codespace? If so, we'll need to provide instructions on how to get started, packages to use (looks like just openai), etc.

    messages: messages,
});

console.log(`Answer for "${prompt}":`);

// 4. Print the answer
// -----------------------------------

console.log(completion.choices[0]?.message?.content); 
```

## Solution

[Solution](./solution/solution.md)

## Challenge

Adopt the example of trip booking and providing skills and extracting parameters to a domain of your choice. Write a prompt that asks for a user input and then extracts the necessary information to fulfill the user's request. Respond with the extracted data in JSON format with columns skill, parameters, extracted_data.

Also determine the skill based on the user's input.

## Summary

In this chapter, we discussed structured output and how it can be used to present information in a structured manner.

We explored different ways to shape the output, including instructing the model in the text, presenting an output template, and using formats like JSON, XML, or CSV.

Additionally, we learned how to extract data from prompts and present it in a structured format.

By leveraging structured output effectively, you can make it easier to understand and consume information generated by generative AI models.

## Knowledge Check

> Generate a question with 2 correct responses and one incorrect:

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this line - I see the question below. Are you asking them to do something else?

> Generate a question with 2 correct responses and one incorrect:

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 
> Starting the Game: Players roll the beans to move their markers around the board. The goal is to move all markers around the board and back to the starting point 
> 
> Movement: Players roll the beans to determine how many spaces to move. A roll of five allows a marker to move ten spaces 
> 
> Capturing and Scoring: Landing on specific spaces can result in gaining extra turns, losing point beads, or capturing opponent's markers 
> 
> Aztec Involvement: 
> 
> The Aztecs, including nobles and commoners, widely played Patolli. It was a popular pastime at the court of Montezuma, who enjoyed watching his nobles play 
> 
> The game was not just for entertainment but also involved high-stakes gambling, with players betting items like blankets, precious stones, and even their homes or freedom 

![Patolli board](./assets/patolli.png)

*Patolli - Wikipedia*

## Structured Output

**Time beetle:** Hey folks, want to know how I beat Montezuma?

**You:** Sshh, not so loud, we're still in the Aztec Empire.

**Time beetle:** Oh right, sorry, yea so structured output is how. You asked for the right moves and I gave them to you in a structured way.

> Structured output refers to different data formats that are used to present information in a structured manner. Formats like JSON, XML, and CSV are commonly used and makes it easy to consume data by services.

Author: ```suggestion
Structured output uses specific data formats to organize information clearly. Common formats like JSON, XML, and CSV make it easier for services to process and use the data
```

```

**Leonardo:** This is great, but who is Jason?

**Time beetle:** JSON, Leonardo, JSON. It's a structured format that is easy to consume by services or applications.

**Leonardo:** That's what I said, Jason.

**Time beetle:** _Sigh_.

As you can see, the output is structured according to the specifications in the output template. This makes it easier to read and understand and it also creates repeatable output that can be easily consumed by other services or applications.

Of course a service benefits from even more structured output, like JSON, XML, or CSV so let's look at how you can ask for that.

**Time beetle:** But wait, there's more!

**You:** There always is with you, George. _sigh_

### Using structured output with formats like JSON, XML, or CSV

**Time beetle:** So far, you've seen how you can control the output structure by instructing the model in the prompt. You have even provided an output template. Let's take that idea a step further and see how it can be applied to more structured output formats like JSON and other types of formats.

Modify the prompt accordingly to ask for JSON output:

> > **Prompt**: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention, for each idea present in json format, include properties for title, description, resources, needed, effort

Author: ```suggestion
> **Prompt**: Generate ideas for inventions I can build given 1500th century technology, please let me know for each what resources I need and how much effort there would be to build each invention, for each idea present in json format, include properties for title, description, resources, needed, effort
> 
> Example of the JSON output:
> [
>   {
>     "title": "",
>     "description": ".",
>     "resources_needed": "",
>     "effort": ""
>   }
> ]
```

  }
]
```

This is great, this output is something you can send to another service or application that can consume JSON data.

**You:** If you say so.

**Time beetle:** I do, I do.

## Extracting data from prompts

**Time beetle:** Imagine you're building a chatbot that helps users find information about trips to book. You want to extract key details from the user's input to provide relevant responses. Let's say you have a description like so: Type where you would like to go, when you want to travel, and your budget.

Hopefully the user reads said instruction, what does a prompt look like that extracts the information? 

> Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency, respond with the extracted data in JSON format, user prompt: I want to go to Greece in June, my budget is 800 euro.

> Response:

```json
{
  "location": "Greece",
  "when": "June",
  "budget": 800,
  "currency": "euro"
}
```

**Leonardo:** He doesn't stop talking does he?

**You:** Let's see if I can find the off switch.

**Time beetle:** Let's try this with a similar prompt, let's vary the user input a bit so we can be sure the model is doing the right thing.

> > Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency, respond with the extracted data in JSON format, user prompt: Going to US, max 1200 dollars, January maybe.

Author: ```suggestion
> Prompt: Extract the following information from a users prompt: location, when, budget, currency. Respond with the extracted data in JSON format. User prompt: Going to US, max 1200 dollars, January maybe.
```

## Assignment - repair the aerial screw

**Time beetle:** I need both of your attention, we have a problem. The aerial screw took some damage during the escape from the Roman soldiers and the landing in the Aztec Empire. Leonardo da Vinci's machine is quite sensitive and it requires very specific input to repair it. You need to provide the necessary information to your time beetle (AI Assistant) to help you repair the aerial screw.

**Leonardo:** So I managed to fix the damage to the aerial screw but now it needs a boot sequence: left left up right:
You: sounds easy enough, just that text?

**Leonardo:** Yes, but it' special, it needs to be mirrored, that's how I write all my text. And of course I use a Caesar cipher with a shift of 3 because I'm Italian. :)

**You:** Yes, could you just type it in then?

**Leonardo:** I could, but I'm intrigued to see if you and the time beetle can do it.

**You:** Really? Fine.

Instruction: Write a prompt that asks for the boot sequence for the aerial screw, the text should be mirrored and encoded with a Caesar cipher with a shift of 3. Respond with the encoded text.

> Here's a piece of code to get started with:

Author: ```suggestion
See the [sample app](./sample-app) for code to get started with. It contains a Node.js project with all the dependencies you need. If you haven't created a Codespace, please do so now as you will need it to get the AI communication to work. See start of this lesson for instructions on creating a codespace.
```
